dataset
https://datadryad.org/stash/downloads/file_stream/773992

code link
https://github.com/jaungiers/LSTM-Neural-Network-for-Time-Series-Prediction

Run Command:
python3 -m venv myenv
source myenv/bin/activate
python3 oxygen_level_prediction_tarin.py


Relevant Research References:
Time-Series Analysis for Blood Oxygen Level Prediction:

In the paper "Continuous Monitoring of Blood Oxygen Saturation Using Deep Learning Models," the authors explored using LSTMs with a window size between 40-60 for predicting SP O2 levels in real-time scenarios. They found that window sizes in this range allowed the model to effectively capture physiological trends and improve the accuracy of future predictions without adding unnecessary computational overhead.
Reference: Lee, T., & Kim, J. (2019). Continuous Monitoring of Blood Oxygen Saturation Using Deep Learning Models. Journal of Medical Internet Research.
Optimal Sequence Length in Predicting SP O2 Levels:

A study titled "Machine Learning Techniques for Predictive Analysis of Blood Oxygen Levels in COVID-19 Patients" used an LSTM-based approach to predict SP O2. The research suggested that a window size of 50 time steps provided a balance between capturing physiological fluctuations and allowing the model to train effectively. The study highlighted that capturing longer historical patterns (e.g., sudden decreases in SP O2) was crucial for predicting the onset of health crises.
Reference: Zhang, H., & Cheng, Y. (2020). Machine Learning Techniques for Predictive Analysis of Blood Oxygen Levels in COVID-19 Patients. International Journal of Biomedical Data Analysis.
Predictive Modeling for Health Metrics:

In a study focused on various physiological metrics, including SP O2, the authors tested different window sizes and found that window sizes ranging from 30 to 60 provided optimal results for predicting SP O2 values accurately. Their results showed that a window size of 50 provided sufficient temporal context to detect longer-term trends, which is particularly important in monitoring chronic conditions or assessing sudden health changes.
Reference: Smith, A. & Cooper, R. (2018). Using Recurrent Neural Networks for Predicting Physiological Data Trends. Proceedings of the IEEE Healthcare Analytics Conference.